Robotics and exercise research wrapped up the week for the Expedition 72 crew aboard the International 
Space Station. The orbital residents also tested a thigh cuff that may reverse space-caused fluid shifts
 in astronauts and explored ways to prevent microbes from spreading on spacecraft.

Removing space debris and servicing satellites in orbit are key objectives to promote the 
commercialization of space. NASA is studying using robots as a way to perform these important 
tasks and protect space-based infrastructure. Flight Engineers Don Pettit of NASA and Takuya 
Onishi of JAXA (Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency) joined each other on Friday testing an 
Astrobee robotic free-flyer outfitted with tentacle-like grippers. They monitored the cube 
shaped Astrobee as it autonomously detected and maneuvered toward a “capture cube.” The
 grippers, with gecko-like adhesive pads, then extended toward the test object and grappled 
 it. Engineers are demonstrating the robotic technology’s capability to capture objects made 
 of different materials and textures.

Without Earth’s gravity impacting the human body, muscles and bones begin to atrophy since 
astronauts aren’t attached to the ground and spend less energy moving around a spacecraft. 
To offset those space-caused symptoms, as well as condition the cardiopulmonary system, 
crews exercise two hours a day every day on a variety of machines. Scientists monitor 
those workouts to understand how the body adapts to physical activity in microgravity
 and ensure crews stay healthy during long duration missions. NASA Flight Engineer 
 Nichole Ayers pedaled on an exercise cycle while attached to sensors and breathing 
 gear measuring how her heart and lungs respond to working out in weightlessness. 
 Doctors will use the data to learn how space affects aerobic capacity, improve 
 space workouts, and prepare astronauts for strenuous tasks such as spacewalks.

Ayers also joined Onishi as he wore a specialized thigh cuff that may change how 
fluids flow in a crew member’s body preventing head and eye pressure during spaceflight. 
Onishi wore electrodes on his chest while Ayers scanned his legs with the Ultrasound 2 device 
measuring his blood flow to determine the effectiveness of the thigh cuffs. At the end of the 
experiment, Onishi discussed the comfort, fit, and usability of the biomedical gear with a researcher 
on the ground.